1

Business Analytics Using Forecasting (BAFT)
Instructor:​ ​Galit Shmueli​ (galit.shmueli@iss.nthu.edu.tw)
TA: ​Nicholas Danks (nicholasdanks@iss.nthu.edu.tw)
Websites:
1. Canvas:
https://canvas.instructure.com/courses/1017982
2. MOOC:
www.futurelearn.com/courses/business­analytics­forec
asting

Term: ​Fall 2016
Class Time: ​Tuesdays, 14:20­17:20
Classroom: ​Room 321, TSMC Building

Course Description
Business analytics is the use of data­driven decision making. Companies, governments and other organizations now collect
and analyze large amounts of data about suppliers, clients, employees, citizens, transactions, etc. Forecasting is the arm of
predictive analytics that provides a powerful toolkit for analyzing time series data. This course focuses on forecasting time
series, where past and present values are used to forecast future values of a series of interest. The course covers issues
relating to different steps of the forecasting process, from goal definition, through data visualization, modeling, and
performance evaluation to model deployment.
Quantitative forecasting uses statistical and data mining methods to generating numerical forecasts, an important
component of decision making across many business functions, including economic forecasting, workload projections,
sales forecasts, and transportation demand. Forecasting is now applied to Big Data with many series, often measured at
high frequency. Examples include daily demand of thousands of products at retail chains, hourly statistics of wind turbines,
and minute­by­minute web traffic or call volume to call centers. Forecasting can be combined with statistical monitoring
methods for purposes of anomaly detection – for example, public health organizations collect and monitor clinical and
other data for detecting disease outbreaks. Forecasting is also often combined with simulation for purposes of scenario
building.
The focus of this course is on using forecasting for improving service, with a special emphasis on humane and
socially­responsible forecasting.
In the course we’ll work with real business problems and real data. We will examine types of applications where
forecasting is potentially useful, and learn how to deploy the forecasting process. The emphasis is on understanding the
concepts and logic behind a wide set of forecasting techniques and their relation to specific business analytics situation.
The course is not about mastering the theoretical underpinnings of the techniques. ​The course will be driven by a
business forecasting project that will encapsulate the different steps of practical forecasting.

Software
An important feature of this course is hands­on learning using forecasting and data visualization software. We will use the
Excel add­in ​XLMiner​ and the open­source ​R software​. For data visualization we will use ​Tableau​.

Course Objectives
Upon successful completion of the course, you should possess valuable practical analytical skills that will equip you with a
competitive skill in almost any contemporary workplace. In particular, the knowledge acquired in this course will benefit
those who plan careers in business and strategic consulting.
More formally, the course will provide participants with the following skills and knowledge:
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Be familiar of business analytics potential and dangers in today’s data rich­environment
Gain experience using key data mining methods of classification, prediction, data reduction and exploration
Know how to decide when to use which technique
Be able to implement major data mining techniques using software
Become a smart and critical use and consumer of data mining techniques
Gain the intellectual capital required to provide responsible business analytics services
Be conscious of humanistic and societal implications of deploying data mining in organizations
BAFT, Institute of Service Science, College of Technology Management, National Tsing Hua University

2

Learning Goals
In addition to the course objectives, students should expect to develop the following by the end of the course:
1. Effective Oral Communication​ ­ Each student will be able to communicate verbally in an organized, clear, and
persuasive manner, and be a responsive listener. (Assessment: Project presentations)
2. Critical and Integrative Thinking​ ­ Each student will be able to identify key issues in a business setting, develop a
perspective that is supported with relevant information and integrative thinking, to draw and assess conclusions.
(Assessment: Individual Assignments, project proposal, team project report and presentations)
3. Interpersonal Awareness and Working in Teams​ ­ Each student will demonstrate an ability to work effectively in a
team, exhibiting behavior that reflects an understanding of the importance of individual roles and tasks, and the
ability to manage conflict and compromise, so that team goals are achieved. (Assessment: Team project report
and team presentations, team meetings with instructor)

Flipped Classroom
The course is designed as a “flipped classroom”: students are expected to watch videos, read the textbook, take short
quizzes, post on an online forum, and work on an assignment prior to each on­ground session. Face­to­face class time will
be devoted to discussions, developing the team projects, gaining hands­on experience, invited lectures, and other forms of
interactive learning. We will use two online platforms: ​Canvas​ (only for our course), and ​FutureLearn.com​ (open course
with 1000+ participants, opens 17 Oct, 2016).

Required Textbook
​ Practical Time Series Forecasting: A Hands­On Guide, 3rd Edition (2016), by Shmueli

­
or ­
Practical Time Series Forecasting with R, 2nd edition (2016), by Shmueli & Lichtendahl
● Kindle eBook available on Amazon.com
● A few copies of a Chinese edition (Amazon.cn) available for borrowing
● Book website:​ ​forecastingbook.com​ (for downloading data)

Grading
Deliverable

Weight

Individual assignments

40%

Online forum posts and quizzes (on Canvas)

10%

MOOC completion (on FutureLearn)

10%

Midterm team proposal presentation & report

15%

Final team project report

10%

Final team presentation

10%

Each student is required to fill a peer evaluation report. If multiple team members indicate insufficient contribution of a
member, a deduction of 30% of the presentation/report grade will be applied to that member.

Guidelines for Deliverables
Individual Assignments
●
●
●

Assignments should be completed independently, without discussing with other students
Hardcopy submitted at beginning of the class meeting; Files uploaded to course website before class.
Late assignments accepted, subject to a penalty of 25% on assignment grade per late day

BAFT, Institute of Service Science, College of Technology Management, National Tsing Hua University

3

On‐Ground Attendance
Full attendance is mandatory in all sessions. You can miss maximum one class due to emergency (e.g. illness).

Online Component and MOOC
1.
2.

Canvas: Before each class, watch videos, read the book chapters, post online, and take the online short quiz.
Complete the individual assignment and submit a hardcopy in class.
MOOC: Complete the online course (​www.futurelearn.com/courses/business­analytics­forecasting​) before its
end­date. Participate in each Discussion by posting, and take each Quiz. Share your username with our TA.

Midterm Team Proposal
Each team should find a dataset (at least 5 series to analyze) and a business/social idea that can be approached using
forecasting with the collected data.
Written Proposal Format:​ 2­pages, 11­point font, 1­inch margins, 1.15 line space, PDF format.
In class Presentation:​ 10­15 min, maximum 10 slides.
The proposal report and slides should include the following components:
1. Suitable Title ­ Should reflect the business goal and forecasting goal
2. Business Goal:
a. Who is the stakeholder or client?
b. A description of the business goal. What are the business benefits of implementing this idea? What
opportunity is it creating? What shortcoming does it address?
c. What would be considered a success?
3. Forecasting Goal:
a. A description of the forecasting objective (what are you forecasting? Forecasting horizon, etc.).
b. Is the goal retrospective or forward­looking?
c. How will the forecasts be used? For what purpose? (Examples: building scenarios/anomaly
detection/optimizing planning/etc.)
4. Data:
a. Brief description of available data (source, what they measure, time period, amount of data).
b. Some guidance on the data subset that will be used and the re­processing or preparation that might be
needed based on your past experience.
c. Time plot of each relevant series (at least 5 series).
5. Methods:
a. What are some forecasting methods to consider? (show initial results with smoothing)
b. Which performance measures are appropriate? How do they map to the business goal?
6. Implementation/Production:
a. Operational requirements or constraints (for example, will the forecasting system be run in real­time?
will it require collecting new data? will it be a one­time analysis or ongoing?)

Final Project Presentation (15 minutes)
Each team presents their project to the class on session #17. The project is based on the ideation submission, where the
idea is then developed into a forecasting solution with final recommendations.
Create the following 7 slides (no more than 10 slides):
1. Cover: Informative title, team number and member names
2. Business problem (stakeholder, challenge/opportunity, humanistic implications)
3. Forecasting goal (forecast/time series analysis, retrospective/prospective, how to be used?)
4. Data description (source, what is measured, how much, how often)
5. Methods (forecasting methods, relevant outputs)
6. Evaluation (metrics of interest, benchmark, comparison)
7. Recommendations

Final Project Report (5 pages)
The project report details the team project, from the business problem through the forecasting problem and solution, to
recommendations.
BAFT, Institute of Service Science, College of Technology Management, National Tsing Hua University

4

Format:​ 5­pages, 11­point font, 1­inch margins, 1.15 line space, PDF format.
The report should be written clearly and professionally and include the following sections:
1. Cover page ​with informative title, team number and member names
2. One­page executive summary​: summarizes the entire report for a non­technical manager (the business problem,
data, the forecasting solution and recommendations)
3. Detailed report:
a. Problem description (business goal and forecasting goal)
b. Data description (source, what is measured, how much, how often, sample of a 10 rows per series, and
time plots).
c. Brief data preparation details (how your data were created from the raw data).
d. Forecasting solution: ​methods applied​ (with sufficient detail and screenshots; use Appendix if needed)
and appropriate ​performance evaluation​ (proper choice of measures, benchmarking). Charts with
training and validation periods.
e. Time plot of series with future forecasts, for each of the 5 series.
f. Conclusions (advantages and limitations) and operational recommendations

Session‐Wise Schedule
Week

Topics

Prepare before class

In­Class Deliverable

#1
Sept 13

1.​ ​Introduction to business analytics
2.​ ​Forecasting applications
3.​ ​Humanity and social responsibility
4.​ ​Forecasting process, language & notation
5. Goal definition

#2
Sept 20

1.​ ​Goal definition
2. Data collection and characteristics
3. Matching data with goal
Project guidelines & examples

Canvas Session 2
Read: Chap 1, Sec 2.1

Team formation
Assignment 1 (goal):
Chap 1, Problems #1­5

#3
Sept 27

1.​ ​Data visualization
2.​ ​Data Pre­processing

Canvas Session 3
Read: Chap 2
Install Tableau

Assignment 2​ (Viz):
Ch 2 Prob #1

#4
Oct 4

Performance Evaluation
1. Data Partitioning
2. Naïve forecasts
3. Predictive Charts & Measures

Canvas Session 4
Read: Chap 3
Install XLMiner, R

Assignment 3
(Performance):
Ch 3 Prob #1 and #2

#5
Oct 11

Smoothing­based methods
1.​ ​Moving Average (centered/trailing)
2. Differencing, Seasonal indexes
3.​ ​Simple Exponential Smoothing
4. ​Advanced Exponential Smoothing
Case 11.1: transportation demand using smoothing

Canvas Session 5
Read: Chap 5

Assignment 4
(Smoothing):
Ch 5 Prob #5

#6
Oct 18

In­Class Team Project Proposal Presentations
MOOC opens

#7
Oct 25

Regression­based forecasting
1.​ ​Linear regression refresher
2.​ ​Regression for forecasting vs. inference
3.​ ​Trend models
4. Models for seasonality

Project Proposal
Report
Canvas Session 2
Read: Chap 6

Assignment 5
(Linear Regression):
Ch 6 Prob #5

BAFT, Institute of Service Science, College of Technology Management, National Tsing Hua University

5

Case 11.1: transportation demand using regression
Assignment 6​ (AR):
Ch 7 Prob #3

#8
Nov 1

Regression­based forecasting – cont.
1.​ ​Autocorrelation
2.​ ​AR models (for forecast errors)
3.​ ​ARIMA models
4. Evaluating predictability; random walk

Read: Chap 7 (7.1­7.3)

#9
Nov 8

Regression­based forecasting ­ cont.
Including external information

Read: Chap 7, Sec 7.4

#10
Nov 15

MOOC [no on­ground class]

#11
Nov 22

MOOC [no on­ground class]

#12
Nov 29

Team projects: updates
Ensembles
Forecasting bike sharing usage (Kaggle)

Read: Chap 4

#13
Dec 6

Forecasting binary events
Logistic regression

Read: Chap 8

Assignment 7
(logistic regression):
Ch 8 Prob #1­10

#14
Dec 13

Project meetings with professor (15 min each team)

#15
Dec 20

Neural networks

Read: Chap 9

Assignment 8​ (NN):
Ch 9 Prob #1­3

#16
Dec 27

Communication and maintenance

Read: Chap 10

#17
Jan 3

Team Project Presentations

Upload PPT to Canvas

#18
Jan 10

Submit Team Project Reports

Upload project report
(pdf) to Canvas

Complete MOOC on
FutureLearn.com

BAFT, Institute of Service Science, College of Technology Management, National Tsing Hua University

