ISS Seminar 書報討論 (Fall 2024) 

Classroom: 905 						Time: Wednesday, 14:20-16:20
Instructor: Pei-Fang Hsu 					Email: pfhsu@iss.nthu.edu.tw
Instructor and TA: Shih-Chu Chen				Email: shihchu.chen@iss.nthu.edu.tw

Office hours: By email appointment
					
Course description and objectives
The seminar is designed for ISS students to understand essential topics in service science through the sharing among: 
ISS faculty's research speech
2nd-year students’ internship sharing
2nd-year students’ research proposal 
Invited practical speeches from industry managers
ISS alumni sharing

All the sharing topics will cover the four research modules in Service Science, including service design/innovation, service management and marketing, service-oriented technology, and business analytics.

Course activity:


Assignments: 
Individual
1st year student: Do a follow-up interviews and one page final reflection report (10%) 
After attending faculty sharing, please find at least one 2nd year student to update your knowledge of the research group chaired by the professor(s) who you have interested in joining. This follow-up interviews and one-page reflection report are expected to be completed by Dec. 18. 
Everyone: One page reflection report * 2 speeches (30%)
Chose 2 speeches that you have strong interests, and submit one-page reflection reports for each of the speeches, including speech summary and takeaways. The two flection reports are expected to be completed by Dec. 18. 

Participation and contribution in class (20%) 
Group
Hosting speech (20%) 
Reflection journal from speech 服務實講 (20%)
The reflection journal is to (1) help students organize ideas that they have learned in a talk, and (2) introduce ISS to future students with real examples. It will be published at ISS FB with students’ names. The content could include 
Summary of talks
Takeaway (What did you learn from this talk?) 
What impressed or inspired you in this talk? 
What further information searching and reflection do you like to share? 
Photos
*Peer evaluation will be used to adjust each team member’s contribution. 

Rule for students use of the AI: Conditionally open. Please specify how generative AI is used in course output.
